README.md, before:

## Attractor Builder: Blender Add-on

<img src="docs/assets/media/icons/blender.svg" alt="Blender icon">

Attractor Builder is a free Blender add-on for numerical integration and
3D visualization of nonlinear dynamical systems. It allows you to generate trajectories of differential equations,
export raw simulation data, build animated attractors, and experiment with
both classic and custom chaotic models - directly inside **Blender 4.5+**.

**https://pcabala.github.io/AttractorBuilder/en/**

---

## Installation

1. Download the add-on:
   👉 [Download `attractor_builder.zip`](https://github.com/pcabala/AttractorBuilder/releases/latest/download/attractor_builder.zip)
   (Right-click → *“Save link as…”* to choose destination)

2. In Blender, open: **Edit → Preferences → Add-ons**
3. Click **Install…** and choose the ZIP file.
4. Enable the add-on in the list.
5. The add-on will appear in the **N-panel → Attractors**.


<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/intro.png" alt="Attractor Builder – panel location">

---

## Features

### Default Mode (built-in systems)

A curated collection of **20 classic dynamical systems** (strange-attractor models), including Lorenz, Chen, Lü, Thomas, Arneodo–Coullet–Tresser, and others.  
Each system includes:

- differential equations (`ẋ`, `ẏ`, `ż`)
- editable parameters
- quick export to **Custom Mode**

Detailed descriptions of all predefined systems are available on the add-on documentation page:  
**https://pcabala.github.io/AttractorBuilder/en/systems/**


<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/mode_default.png" alt="Default mode">

---

### Custom Mode (user-defined equations)

Define a custom dynamical system using safe mathematical expressions.

Allowed variables:

`x`, `y`, `z`

Allowed functions:

`sin`, `cos`, `tan`, `asin`, `acos`, `atan`,  
`sinh`, `cosh`, `tanh`, `exp`, `log`, `sqrt`, `pow`, `fabs`

Allowed operators:

`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `**`, `%`, unary `+`, unary `-`

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/mode_custom.png" alt="Custom mode">

---

### Simulation Settings

#### Fixed step methods

- Euler  
- Heun (RK2)  
- Runge–Kutta 4 (RK4)

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/fixed_dt.png" alt="Fixed dt settings">

#### Adaptive step methods

- Runge–Kutta–Fehlberg 4(5) (RKF45)  
- Dormand–Prince 5(4) (DP5)

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/adaptive_dt.png" alt="Adaptive dt settings">

---

### Raw Data and Export

After building an attractor, the add-on provides:

- **Points** — a mesh containing all generated points  
- **Export** — CSV data:  
  `steps, dt, x, y, z`

`dt` varies for adaptive methods.

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/output.png" alt="Output section">

---

### Post-Processing Tools

Available after generating a trajectory:

- **Trim** — remove start/end of the curve  
- **Simplify** — reduce point count  
- **Smooth to Bézier**

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/post_processing.png" alt="Post-processing tools">

---

## Documentation

Full documentation (PL/EN):

**https://pcabala.github.io/AttractorBuilder/**  
(Enable GitHub Pages with `/docs` as the source.)

---

## Issues

If you have suggestions or encounter bugs, please open an Issue:

**https://github.com/pcabala/AttractorBuilder/issues**

---

## Requirements

- Blender **4.5+**  
- Works on Windows, Linux, macOS  
- No external Python installation required

---

## License

**GPL-2.0-or-later**

---

## Author

Paweł Cabała  
2024–2025

Commit message:

Update installation instructions for Blender Extensions
- Switch documentation from legacy Add-ons to Blender Extensions
- Update README and website installation steps

README.md, after:

## Attractor Builder: Blender Add-on

<img src="docs/assets/media/icons/blender.svg" alt="Blender icon">

Attractor Builder is a free Blender add-on for numerical integration and
3D visualization of nonlinear dynamical systems. It allows you to generate trajectories of differential equations,
export raw simulation data, build animated attractors, and experiment with
both classic and custom chaotic models - directly inside **Blender 4.5+**.

**https://pcabala.github.io/AttractorBuilder/en/**

---

## Installation

### Recommended (Blender Extensions)

1. Open Blender and go to: **Edit → Preferences → Extensions**
2. Search for **Attractor Builder** and click **Install**
3. Enable the extension after installation

### Manual installation (from GitHub)

1. Download the extension:
   👉 [Download `attractor_builder.zip`](https://github.com/pcabala/AttractorBuilder/releases/latest/download/attractor_builder.zip)

2. In Blender, open: **Edit → Preferences → Extensions**
3. Click **Install from Disk…** and choose the ZIP file
4. Enable the extension after installation

The add-on panel will appear in the **N-panel → Attractor**.

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/intro.png" alt="Attractor Builder – panel location">

---

## Features

### Default Mode (built-in systems)

A curated collection of **20 classic dynamical systems** (strange-attractor models), including Lorenz, Chen, Lü, Thomas, Arneodo–Coullet–Tresser, and others.  
Each system includes:

- differential equations (`ẋ`, `ẏ`, `ż`)
- editable parameters
- quick export to **Custom Mode**

Detailed descriptions of all predefined systems are available on the add-on documentation page:  
**https://pcabala.github.io/AttractorBuilder/en/systems/**


<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/mode_default.png" alt="Default mode">

---

### Custom Mode (user-defined equations)

Define a custom dynamical system using safe mathematical expressions.

Allowed variables:

`x`, `y`, `z`

Allowed functions:

`sin`, `cos`, `tan`, `asin`, `acos`, `atan`,  
`sinh`, `cosh`, `tanh`, `exp`, `log`, `sqrt`, `pow`, `fabs`

Allowed operators:

`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `**`, `%`, unary `+`, unary `-`

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/mode_custom.png" alt="Custom mode">

---

### Simulation Settings

#### Fixed step methods

- Euler  
- Heun (RK2)  
- Runge–Kutta 4 (RK4)

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/fixed_dt.png" alt="Fixed dt settings">

#### Adaptive step methods

- Runge–Kutta–Fehlberg 4(5) (RKF45)  
- Dormand–Prince 5(4) (DP5)

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/adaptive_dt.png" alt="Adaptive dt settings">

---

### Raw Data and Export

After building an attractor, the add-on provides:

- **Points** — a mesh containing all generated points  
- **Export** — CSV data:  
  `steps, dt, x, y, z`

`dt` varies for adaptive methods.

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/output.png" alt="Output section">

---

### Post-Processing Tools

Available after generating a trajectory:

- **Trim** — remove start/end of the curve  
- **Simplify** — reduce point count  
- **Smooth to Bézier**

<img src="docs/assets/media/addon/post_processing.png" alt="Post-processing tools">

---

## Documentation

Full documentation (PL/EN):

**https://pcabala.github.io/AttractorBuilder/**  
(Enable GitHub Pages with `/docs` as the source.)

---

## Issues

If you have suggestions or encounter bugs, please open an Issue:

**https://github.com/pcabala/AttractorBuilder/issues**

---

## Requirements

- Blender **4.5+**  
- Works on Windows, Linux, macOS  
- No external Python installation required

---

## License

**GPL-2.0-or-later**

---

## Author

Paweł Cabała  
2024–2025
